Romanticism or Romanticism is a revolutionary movement in every area of life that, in the arts, broke the patterns established during Neoclassicism, defending fantasy, imagination and the irrational strengths of the mind. Neoclassicism still stayed with some of the writers, but many, that were initiated in the neoclassicist attitude, converted eagerly to Romanticism, like the Duke of Rivas or José of Espronceda. Others however were convinced Romanticists from the beginning.

The origin of the term Romanticism is not entirely clear. Moreover, the evolution of the movement varies between countries. In the 17th cenutry, it appeared in England with the meaning "unreal". Samuel Pepys (1633 - 1703) used it with the meaning "emotional" and "related to the soul." James Boswell (1740 - 1795) used it to describe the appearance of Corsica. *Romantic appears as a general adjective to express something "passionate" and "emotional". In Germany, however, it was used by Johann Gottfried Herder as a synonym of "mediaeval". The term *romanhaft (novella-like or romantic) was replaced by *romantisch, with more emotional and passionate connotations. In France, Jean-Jacques Rousseau used it in a discription of Lake Geneva. In 1798, the *Dictionnaire de l’*Académie *française show both the natural and the literary senses of romantique. In Spain, one must wait until 1805 to find the expression romancista. During the years 1814 and 1818, after repeated controversy, one still used uncertainly the terms *romanesco, *romancesco, *románico and *romántico (*romantisma).

The pioneers of Romanticism, that extended across Europe and America, were Rousseau (1712 - 1778) and the German dramaturge Goethe (1749 - 1832). Under the influence of these figures, the romanticists began to create less perfect and less regular, but deeper and more intimate. The motto was freedom in every aspect of life.

In Spain, Romanticism was late and short, more intensive, because the second half of the 19th century brought into style Realism, with entirely opposite characteristics to those of romantic literature.

In Spain, Romanticism is considered complex and confused, with big contradictions thatgo from rebelliousness and revolutionary ideology to a return to the Catholic-monarchic tradition.

In relation to political liberty, some understood it as simple restoration of the ideological, patriotic and religious principles that sought to remove the rationalists of the 18th century. They held up Christianity, the Throne and the Homeland, as the highest values. In this movement of traditional romanticism were, for example, Walter Scott, in England, Chateaubriand in France, and the Duke of Rivas and José Zorrilla in Spain. It found its basis in the ideology of absolutist restoration, that happens in Spain after the fall of Napoleon Bonaparte, and defended the traditional principles represented by the Catholic Church and the State. On the other hand other romanticists, as free citizens, struggled against the established system and religion, both in art and in politics. One posited the rights of the individual befoore society and the law. They represent revolutionary Romanticism or liberal Romanticism and its most brilliant representatives were Lord Byron, in England, Victor Hugo, in France and José of Espronceda, in Spain. They leaned on three pillars: research and justification of irrational knowledge that reason was denying, Hegelian dialiectic and Historicism.
