Young Germans do "corona parties" and cough directly on old people. A Spaniard having attached a leash to a goat walks it in order to ignore the ban on leaving one's home. From France to Australia, kitesurfers, students and others fill beaches.

Such contempt for orders about isolation and scientific warnings to fite against the COVID-19 pandemic necessitate oppressive measures from authorities against those, that try to flee the in-home boredom caused by anti-virus restrictions. Occasionally the viral rebels resist and threaten officers and officials resisting public meetings that could spread the virus.

The French minister of internal affairs Christophe Castaner, summoning the French to «stay home», denounce those, that do not heed the quarantine measures. He added: 

One considers himself a little hero defying the rules. Well, no, one acts as an imbecile, and especially as a threat to oneself.
— Christophe Castaner, minister of internal affairs of France 
  After several days of disobedience on the side of those, that refuses to stay home and exit only for essential tasks, France sent security forces to railroad stations to hold back those, that try to travel to their vacations homes, carrying with them the virus to the countryside or the beaches, where the health installations are less solid.

The popular Parisian mall next the Seine were closed. Curfews were imposed by the French mediterranean city Nice by the mayor Christian Estrosi, who himself was infected by the virus.

In the US, Florida's governor closed all beaches, after multiday televised transmissions describing festive crowds of students, despite the growing number of deaths globally, that surpassed 13 000, Sunday, March 22nd. Australia closed the famous Bondi beach after the police were upset by images of crowds there.

The governor of New York Andrew Cuomo said Saturday, March 21st, that young people from 18 to 49 years old constitute more than half of cases. Many folks did not heed recommendations about social distancing, urging folks to stay distant from one another in the vast network of New York parks, a bit of time before the new prohibition to meet in groups, that will take effect from Friday night, according to Cuomo, who added:

One risks harming someone, that one loves, or harming someone entirely involuntarily. Social distancing works, one requires social distancing everywhere.
— Andrew Cuomo, governor
The viral rebels usually are either restless teenagers, or rich adults who can travel  to their vacation homes. Even in Italy, where the number of deaths surpassed that  of China last week, the authorities are still working to hold back folks so that they do not go out to get fresh air or a bit of sun, visit friends or flee from their walled-in lives.
