On Friday the invited Chinese president chatted with US president Trump.

Xi Jinping underlined, that after the explosion of the epidemic China always keeps a public, transparent and responsible attitude, informs relevant countries and international organisations on time, including the World Health Organization and the United States, shares with many sides all experiences about prevention, control and medicine, and tries as hard as possible to give support and help to countries, that have need. China continuously will do like this and will win the fight.

Xi Jinping showed, that an infectious disease does not know border and nation, it is the mutual enemy of humanity. Only through mutual action will the international community be able to win the battle. Thanks to the effort of many sides Thursday's Group 20 summit on COVID-19 won many mutual knowledges and positive fruits. China wants together with other countries, including the US, to continue to support the World Health Organization in playing an important role, to strengthen sharing information about about prevention and control, to communicate experiences, to speed up collaboration to settle scientific research difficulties, to perfect world sanitary management, to strengthen agreement between politicans about large-scale economy, to stabilise markets, to guarantee economic growth and survival of peoples, and guarantee opening, stability and security of the world supply chain.

Xi Jinping underlined, that he greatly pay attention to and worries about the US epidemic, also gives attention to the series of remedies and methods taken by the US president. The Chinese population sincerely hopes, that United States early will control the epidemic and will reduce the loss caused by the epidemic to the American people. China always keeps an open attitude about international collaboration. In the current situation, China and United States need to unite against the epidemic. China wants to continue to share with the US all informations and experiences.

Xi Jinping underlined, that now the binational relations are in an important passageway. Collaboration will give favour to both sides, battle will damage the two sides, hence collaboration is the unique legitimate choice. China hopes, that United States will take essential action to improve the relations, and the two lands jointly will strive, will strengthen collaboration in many fields and will unroll non-adversarial, mutually respectful, cooperative and jointly winning relations.

Trump said, that he carefully heard Xi Jinping's talk  at the Group 20 summit, he and foreign leaders praised Xi Jinping's opinions and initiatives.

Trump thanked China for its supply of anti-epidemic medical products, expressed strengthening of intercommunication with China in the fields of medicine and hygiene, including collaboration to research and exploit effective remedies.
