The Flying Spaghetti Monster is the God of the satirical religion called “Flying Spaghetti Monsterism” (FSM) or “Pastafarianism” (Flying Spaghetti Monsterism or Pastafarianism in English). Bobby Henderson started Flying Spaghetti Monsterism on-line as religious satire, because the local department of education in Kansas (American state) decided, that during a lesson about biology, one should teach the theory of evolution only together with that of "intelligent design" (ID). Because of this Henderson sent an official letter to the Kansasa Committee of Education. In the letter he wrote, that the Flying Spaghetti Monster will also need to be taught. He also said, that his letter proves, that the Flying Spaghetti Monster is at least as good a theory as that of intelligent design.

Basically, Henderson's so-called proofs parallel and thus intend to mock the arguments of the proponents of intelligent design and creationism.

Pastafarianism is a satirical religion against the decision of the state of Kansas (United States) to learn at schools the "Theory of the Intelligent Design" and the "Theory of Evolution".

Pastafarianism or "pastafarianism" is a satirical religious movement invented or founded by Bobby Henderson; it adores the Flying Spaghetti Monster. Its name is allusion tothe Rastafarian movement and simultaneously to the making of pasta, from which it is possible to make spaghetti.

In June 2005, Bobby Henderson sent a public letter to the Kansas Education Committee, in response to the decision of that committee to add educational time about intelligent design equal to the duration of the theory of evolution by natural selection during biological courses. He solicited that those theories about the Flying Spaghetti Monster receive the same duration of school time as others. A bit of time later, he receive grateful answers from three members of the commitee, and also from a fourth a warning message of forewarning because of blasphemy.

In the following months, the number of visitors of Henderson's website constantly rose. The popularity of the site rose much more in August, when the story of the Flying *Spagetmonstro was mentioned in many blogs and websites about current events like Fark.com. Usual media followed. This movement also received support from some academiics, among others the anthropologist  Susan Johnston, who specified the attributes of the monster, simultaneously male and female, “with noodly appendages and two globules of meat that represent distinctly the breasts of the big motherly goddess”.

Henderson notes on his website that the president of the US, George W. Bush and the senator Bill Frist openly backed the teaching of non-evolutionary theories and concludes that they therefore back the teaching of the religion of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.

FSM also brought Henderson death threats, that were issued to his website “Church/Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster”. “I am not surprised”, said Lance Gharavi, pointing the frenzy about Danish caricatures, that set off fatal turbulences in the islamic world in the year 2006.

Casey Luskin, an American scientist and lawyer, said, that “the problem with the logic of proponents of FSM is, that intelligent design is not just any explanation, because we have a lot of experience with intelligent agents producing the type of information complexity, that we see in nature”.

